# Simple and brief introduction to Satistics

1.	Statistics has two branches. 
		1.	Descriptive statistics, that uses various methods to present data in useful and meaningful ways.
		2.	Inference statistics, that uses information from samples to draw conclusions about populations.
2.	In the vast majority of cases, population data are not available and thus, to be able to study a population, we take one or more samples from that population and using the methods of the inference statistics we make indirect conclusions about the population.
3.	The term population in statistics has a very broad meaning and can refer to a group of people, group of animals, group of plants or even to a group of any kind of items we could think of. The population is not something standardized, but is defined by the researcher, who uses some characteristics to describe who or what exactly belongs to the population which, he or she, is interested to study. Each one of those groups, should have some certain characteristics in order to belong to the population. We say, for example, that we are interested in the people who attend e-learning lessons on coding all over the world and so, this is our population which we are interested to study. We are interested, for example, to find out what is the average age of our population. Obviously. It’s not possible to ask every person around the world, who belongs to our population, about their age. First, we don’t actually know all the people who study coding using e-learning around the world, and even if we did, it would be too costly and time consuming to contact them all. Thus, we will only ask a few people around the world and based on their answers we will draw conclusions about the whole population of the coding e-learners.
4.	So, let’s say that we contacted 100 people around the world, and they told us their age. These 100 people is our sample, and based on our sample, we will estimate the age of our population. But how accurate would that be? Depends on the sampling technique we used, the size of the sample, and obviously, the quality of the analysis that we will perform. Note though that actually, the age of the population would always be unknown, and we can only estimate it, without ever knowing its actual value.
5.	When we don’t understand something, we may use the phrase “It’s all Greek to me”. Remember though that most people around the world understand English. Actually, the same thing happens with statistics. We understand the sample in the same way that we understand English, because sample is something known. But we don’t understand the population very well because is mostly unknown, in the same way that most people around the world don’t understand Greek.
6.	So, let’s use the above metaphor to remember that in statistics, all over the world, everything that refers to the population is always written with Greek letters, while everything that refers to the sample, is always written with English letters.
7.	Population: μ = population mean, σ = population variance, ρ = population correlation
8.	Sample: x bar (x with bar on top) = sample mean, s = sample variance, r = sample correlation
